API.md, before:

# Python API

API for `cvvidproc` Python module.



## Background Image

Purpose: get the background of a video (or cropped view of video)

Function calls:
- `GetVideoBackground(VidBgPack pack)`
    - Inputs:
        - `pack`: a package of input variables
    - Returns: A `numpy` array representation of the background image (convertible to an OpenCV `Mat`)

Structures/Classes:
- `VidBgPack`
    - Parameters (with default values):
        - `vid_path`: *String*, Full system path to video that should be analyzed
        - `bg_algo = 'hist'`: *String*, Algorithm for obtaining background image; available algorithms:
            - `hist`: Histogram-based median of pixel values (per-channel median).
        - `max_threads = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of threads to use while computing background image
        - `frame_limit = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames in video to use while computing background image
        - `grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether to interpret the video has grayscale
        - `vid_is_grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether the video should be treated as already grayscale (optimization)
        - `crop_x = 0`: *Int*, Horizontal position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_y = 0`: *Int*, Vertical position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_width = 0`: *Int*, Width of crop-view
        - `crop_height = 0`: *Int*, Height of crop-view
        - `token_storage_limit = 10`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames to store at a time (use lower values if program is using too much RAM, otherwise ignore)
        - `print_timing_report = false`: *Bool*, Whether to print a timing report about the algorithm's performance


### Example Use

```PY
import cvvidproc

def compute_bkgd_med_thread(vid_path, vid_is_grayscale, num_frames=100, 
            crop_x=0, crop_y=0, crop_width=0, crop_height=0):
    """
    Calls multithreaded bkgd algo.
    """

    # computes the median
    vidpack = cvvidproc.VidBgPack(
        vid_path = vid_path,
        frame_limit = num_frames, #(default = -1 -> all frames),
        vid_is_grayscale = vid_is_grayscale,
        crop_x = crop_x,
        crop_y = crop_y,
        crop_width = crop_width, #(default = 0)
        crop_height = crop_height, #(default = 0)
        print_timing_report = True)

    bkgd_med = cvvidproc.GetVideoBackground(vidpack)

    return bkgd_med
```



## Object Tracking

Purpose: track objects in a video with user-defined object tracking method

Function calls:
- `TrackObjects(VidObjectTrackPack pack)`
    - Inputs:
        - `pack`: a package of input variables
    - Returns: A Python Dictionary containing all objects tracked in video

Structures/Classes:
- `VidObjectTrackPack`
    - Parameters (with default values):
        - `vid_path`: *String*, Full system path to video that should be analyzed
        - `highlight_objects_pack`: *HighlightObjectsPack*, Variable pack for highlighting objects
        - `assign_objects_pack`: *AssignObjectsPack*, Variable pack for assigning objects
        - `max_threads = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of threads to use
        - `frame_limit = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames in video to use
        - `grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether to interpret the video has grayscale
        - `vid_is_grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether the video should be treated as already grayscale (optimization)
        - `crop_x = 0`: *Int*, Horizontal position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_y = 0`: *Int*, Vertical position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_width = 0`: *Int*, Width of crop-view
        - `crop_height = 0`: *Int*, Height of crop-view
        `token_storage_limit = 10`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames to store at a time (use lower values if program is using too - much RAM, otherwise ignore)
        - `print_timing_report = false`: *Bool*, Whether to print a timing report about the algorithm's performance

- `HighlightObjectsPack`
    - Parameters (no defaults):
        - `background`: *Image*, Background of video to highlight objects in
        - `struct_element`: *Image*
        - `threshold`: *Int*
        - `threshold_lo`: *Int*
        - `threshold_hi`: *Int*
        - `min_size_hyst`: *Int*
        - `min_size_threshold`: *Int*
        - `width_border`: *Int*

- `AssignObjectsPack`
    - Parameters (no defaults):
        - `function`: *functor*, Python function object for assigning objects in highlighted frames; expected signature/behavior:
            - `next_ID = func(bw_frame, frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID, kwargs)`
        - `kwargs`: *Dictionary*, Dictionary of args to forward to function

### Example Use

```PY
import cvvidproc


def assign_objects(bw_frame, frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID, kwargs):

    # update {frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID}


def track_obj_cvvidproc(track_kwargs, highlight_kwargs, assign_objects_kwargs):
    highlightpack = cvvidproc.HighlightObjectsPack(
        background = track_kwargs['bkgd'],
        struct_element = highlight_kwargs['selem'],
        threshold = highlight_kwargs['th'],
        threshold_lo = highlight_kwargs['th_lo'],
        threshold_hi = highlight_kwargs['th_hi'],
        min_size_hyst = highlight_kwargs['min_size_hyst'],
        min_size_threshold = highlight_kwargs['min_size_th'],
        width_border = highlight_kwargs['width_border'])

    assignpack = cvvidproc.AssignObjectsPack(
        assign_objects,     # pass in function name as functor (not string)
        assign_objects_kwargs)

    # fields not defined will be defaulted
    trackpack = cvvidproc.VidObjectTrackPack(
        vid_path = track_kwargs['vid_path'],
        highlight_objects_pack = highlightpack,
        assign_objects_pack = assignpack,
        frame_limit = track_kwargs['end'] - track_kwargs['start'],
        vid_is_grayscale = True,
        crop_y = assign_objects_kwargs['row_lo'],
        crop_height = assign_objects_kwargs['row_hi'] - assign_objects_kwargs['row_lo'],
        print_timing_report = True)

    objects_archive = cvvidproc.TrackObjects(trackpack)

    return objects_archive
```

Commit message:

added functionality to choose start frame

API.md, after:

# Python API

API for `cvvidproc` Python module.



## Background Image

Purpose: get the background of a video (or cropped view of video)

Function calls:
- `GetVideoBackground(VidBgPack pack)`
    - Inputs:
        - `pack`: a package of input variables
    - Returns: A `numpy` array representation of the background image (convertible to an OpenCV `Mat`)

Structures/Classes:
- `VidBgPack`
    - Parameters (with default values):
        - `vid_path`: *String*, Full system path to video that should be analyzed
        - `bg_algo = 'hist'`: *String*, Algorithm for obtaining background image; available algorithms:
            - `hist`: Histogram-based median of pixel values (per-channel median).
        - `max_threads = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of threads to use while computing background image
        - `frame_limit = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames in video to use while computing background image
        - `grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether to interpret the video has grayscale
        - `vid_is_grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether the video should be treated as already grayscale (optimization)
        - `crop_x = 0`: *Int*, Horizontal position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_y = 0`: *Int*, Vertical position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_width = 0`: *Int*, Width of crop-view
        - `crop_height = 0`: *Int*, Height of crop-view
        - `token_storage_limit = 10`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames to store at a time (use lower values if program is using too much RAM, otherwise ignore)
        - `print_timing_report = false`: *Bool*, Whether to print a timing report about the algorithm's performance


### Example Use

```PY
import cvvidproc

def compute_bkgd_med_thread(vid_path, vid_is_grayscale, num_frames=100, 
            crop_x=0, crop_y=0, crop_width=0, crop_height=0):
    """
    Calls multithreaded bkgd algo.
    """

    # computes the median
    vidpack = cvvidproc.VidBgPack(
        vid_path = vid_path,
        frame_limit = num_frames, #(default = -1 -> all frames),
        vid_is_grayscale = vid_is_grayscale,
        crop_x = crop_x,
        crop_y = crop_y,
        crop_width = crop_width, #(default = 0)
        crop_height = crop_height, #(default = 0)
        print_timing_report = True)

    bkgd_med = cvvidproc.GetVideoBackground(vidpack)

    return bkgd_med
```



## Object Tracking

Purpose: track objects in a video with user-defined object tracking method

Function calls:
- `TrackObjects(VidObjectTrackPack pack)`
    - Inputs:
        - `pack`: a package of input variables
    - Returns: A Python Dictionary containing all objects tracked in video

Structures/Classes:
- `VidObjectTrackPack`
    - Parameters (with default values):
        - `vid_path`: *String*, Full system path to video that should be analyzed
        - `highlight_objects_pack`: *HighlightObjectsPack*, Variable pack for highlighting objects
        - `assign_objects_pack`: *AssignObjectsPack*, Variable pack for assigning objects
        - `max_threads = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of threads to use
        - `start_frame = 0`: *Int*, Frame number to start analysis from
        - `frame_limit = -1`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames in video to use
        - `grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether to interpret the video has grayscale
        - `vid_is_grayscale = false`: *Bool*, Whether the video should be treated as already grayscale (optimization)
        - `crop_x = 0`: *Int*, Horizontal position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_y = 0`: *Int*, Vertical position of upper left corner of crop-view
        - `crop_width = 0`: *Int*, Width of crop-view
        - `crop_height = 0`: *Int*, Height of crop-view
        `token_storage_limit = 10`: *Int*, Maximum number of frames to store at a time (use lower values if program is using too - much RAM, otherwise ignore)
        - `print_timing_report = false`: *Bool*, Whether to print a timing report about the algorithm's performance

- `HighlightObjectsPack`
    - Parameters (no defaults):
        - `background`: *Image*, Background of video to highlight objects in
        - `struct_element`: *Image*
        - `threshold`: *Int*
        - `threshold_lo`: *Int*
        - `threshold_hi`: *Int*
        - `min_size_hyst`: *Int*
        - `min_size_threshold`: *Int*
        - `width_border`: *Int*

- `AssignObjectsPack`
    - Parameters (no defaults):
        - `function`: *functor*, Python function object for assigning objects in highlighted frames; expected signature/behavior:
            - `next_ID = func(bw_frame, frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID, kwargs)`
        - `kwargs`: *Dictionary*, Dictionary of args to forward to function

### Example Use

```PY
import cvvidproc


def assign_objects(bw_frame, frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID, kwargs):

    # update {frames_processed, objects_prev, objects_archive, next_ID}


def track_obj_cvvidproc(track_kwargs, highlight_kwargs, assign_objects_kwargs):
    highlightpack = cvvidproc.HighlightObjectsPack(
        background = track_kwargs['bkgd'],
        struct_element = highlight_kwargs['selem'],
        threshold = highlight_kwargs['th'],
        threshold_lo = highlight_kwargs['th_lo'],
        threshold_hi = highlight_kwargs['th_hi'],
        min_size_hyst = highlight_kwargs['min_size_hyst'],
        min_size_threshold = highlight_kwargs['min_size_th'],
        width_border = highlight_kwargs['width_border'])

    assignpack = cvvidproc.AssignObjectsPack(
        assign_objects,     # pass in function name as functor (not string)
        assign_objects_kwargs)

    # fields not defined will be defaulted
    trackpack = cvvidproc.VidObjectTrackPack(
        vid_path = track_kwargs['vid_path'],
        highlight_objects_pack = highlightpack,
        assign_objects_pack = assignpack,
        frame_limit = track_kwargs['end'] - track_kwargs['start'],
        vid_is_grayscale = True,
        crop_y = assign_objects_kwargs['row_lo'],
        crop_height = assign_objects_kwargs['row_hi'] - assign_objects_kwargs['row_lo'],
        print_timing_report = True)

    objects_archive = cvvidproc.TrackObjects(trackpack)

    return objects_archive
```
